- [Instructor] We have seen the Executor,
and we've seen the ExecutorService,
now let's take a look at
the ScheduledExecutorService interface.
It's a sub-interface of the ExecutorService,
and as the name suggests,
it is used to schedule certain jobs, right?
So we just got a special method called a schedule,
which will help you run jobs after a given delay.
So you can actually start a job
after some initial delay and then the job can run for you.
Something like that, okay?
There are two other flavors of methods:
scheduleWithFixedDelay and scheduleAtFixedRate.
So those are the methods that you may want to employ
if you want to execute your jobs in the application
at periodic intervals or with certain definite delay, okay?
So let's go to the next slide and see
what is the use case that we are going to implement
as a part of this API's demo that we are going to do.
Now when you talk about schedule jobs in your application,
it is generally a very common use case that we have:
clean up and maintenance activities for the application.
Okay, so we're going to pick up a similar use case.
We're going to do a housekeeping job for the application.
What are we going to do under that?
We'll pick up a folder from a machine,
we'll list all the files from the folder,
and we're going to check the time stamp on each of the file.
Let's say if the time stamp is maybe
greater than five minutes or ten minutes
or whatever time that you want to decide,
then we want to delete that file.
We do not want to keep maintaining those files,
let's clean them up.
So we're going to write this chore
as the ScheduledExecutorService use case demo.
So what are we going to do in it?
There will be a class, which is of course
a runnable or re-callable implementation,
and the sole job of this particular class
will be to clean up the old files.
Once we do that, we're going to write a test class
where we are going to pick up
the ScheduledExecutorService object
and we are going to make sure that
this job of clean up is scheduled accordingly.
This is a loop.
Why is it shown as a loop?
Because this job may be scheduled many times
during the application so it'll
keep coming again and again, right?
So the next video, we'll look at the
detailed demo for this.